oop: adds intro-to-oop, intro-to-oop-contd, python-oop, oop-relationships. (#42)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: oop-relationships/oop-relationships.md

> # OOP Relationships

Author: I'm EXTREMELY into this conversation! I love love love love it, I want us (Ada) to keep exploring this direction.

For the sake of giving an explanation for C15: Choosing inheritance and composition as the two things to fixate on during OOP is largely me conforming to what the old Ada curriculum emphasized, and trying to soften this curriculum transition. I'm very excited to slowly evolve this, though.

> # OOP Relationships

Reviewer: I'm not really calling for a major change in how those two facets are presented. They're both important concepts.  I'm just venting that dynamic typing muddies the explanation soooo much.  It would be great if students could get introduced to some of the restrictions imposed by static typing as part of the official curriculum.  I feel like a lot of students get quite a bit of culture shock if the first time they run into statically-typed languages is on their capstone.

Because OOP is a paradigm that encourages forming relationships between these objects, OOP principles describe several types of these relationships. Two of these types of relationships are _inheritance_ and _composition_.

These relationships will affect _how_ we solve problems that involve more than one class. Eventually, these types of relationships get applied when following software design patterns.

## Vocabulary and Synonyms

| Vocab | Definition | Synonyms | How to Use in a Sentence
| --- | --- | --- | ---

## Inheritance: Passing on Implementation

Sometimes, two classes are similar... but different. The two classes share the same attributes and the same methods... but one class has additional attributes, additional methods, and a different name. We could formalize a relationship between these two classes with inheritance.

Inheritance designates a **parent class** and a **child class**. Using inheritance, the _child class_ will "copy" the state and behavior defined in the _parent class_.

> When a _child class_ tries to use an attribute or method that it doesn't define in its own class, it will look up to the _parent class_. If the parent class has that attribute or method defined, the child class will use that implementation.

Author: ```suggestion
Imagine reading an attribute or calling a method from an instance of a child class.

If Python does not see a definition for that attribute or method in the _child class_, Python will try looking for it in the _parent class_. If the parent class has that attribute or method defined, the child class will be able to use that implementation.
```

What do we think about blowing up the structure of the first sentence?

I'm not perfect at reworking it, but here's a stab. 🗡️ 

I'm a little troubled because inheritance isn't reserved for just instances as my suggestion might imply, but also words, and examples, they are hard 🤷

> When a _child class_ tries to use an attribute or method that it doesn't define in its own class, it will look up to the _parent class_. If the parent class has that attribute or method defined, the child class will use that implementation.

Reviewer: Yes yes yes.  This even hints at the runtime lookup.  Thank you!

> Not only can child classes inherit state and behavior, they can also **override** them. A child class may need to have attributes or methods of the same name, but different implementation. When a child class re-defines an inherited property, the child class _overrides_ it. When overriding, the child class can optionally still look to the parent class's implementation.

Author: I like this -- as you and Audrey have mentioned before, this really begs for an explanation of `super()`, so before I absorb this suggestion, I want to decide where that `super()` explanation goes.

This relationship is called composition. Composition means that one class is expected to have objects of another class stored or referenced inside of it.

Composition between two classes describes a **composite** class and a **component** class. The _composite class_ contains at least one object of type _component class_.

Composition is interesting, because the _composite class_ is made that much more complex and interesting with the addition of a _component class_.

When a _composite class_ **has a** _component class_, the composite class can use that component class. The _composite class_ could possibly read attributes, modify attributes, and invoke methods from the _component class_.

Any time that one class knows about another class's attributes and methods, we programmers should recognize that the other class is being _exposed_. One class might carelessly read or modify attributes, or invoke methods, that aren't intended to be used. Every time a class exposes its properties, the programmer should consider the trust that is built between these two classes.

> 

Author: Never apologize for pedantry (with me). Love that stuff.

(The funny thing about my current writing/review cycle is-- things I learn from reviews end up coming after I've written a bunch of other things! </3)

> 

Reviewer: Once I realized that we've probably overlooked this, I consciously tried to avoid the possessive in my suggestions since it just looks SO WEIRD! 😱
